Installing hermes

NOTE: this file has been generated from the source file
http://www.hermes-project.com/pages/installing-hermes

To install and configure a fully working hermes, you have to follow these
steps:

* Install_hermes
* Configure_hermes
* Change_your_current_SMTP_server_to_another_port


Install hermes
=================

If you are going to install from source, you first need to have sqlite3
installed with it's corresponding development package (usually sqlite3-devel or
sqlite3-dev). If you want to install hermes with SSL support, you also need
openssl with it's development headers (usually openssl-devel or openssl-dev).

- From source

If you have downloaded a .tar.gz or .tar.bz2 file, the procedure is as follows:

  # tar xvfj hermes-1.0.tar.bz2 # extract file
  # cd hermes-1.0 # change to the directory
  # ./configure # execute configure
  # make # compile
  # make install # install

- From a source RPM

If you have downloaded a source rpm (.src.rpm) you have to compile it before
installing. To do so, you need the rpmbuild program.

  # rpmbuild --rebuild hermes-1.0.src.rpm

After compiling, you should have a binary rpm on /usr/src/rpm/RPMS/i386 (or /
usr/src/redhat/RPMS/i386, depending on your distribution). With this file,
proceed to install the rpm.

- From a binary RPM

If you have downloaded a binary rpm (.rpm), installing should be pretty
straightforward:

  # rpm -ihv hermes-1.0.rpm

Configure hermes
===================

This document will show you how to configure hermes in the most common way, but
if you want to read the full help for the hermes options, go to the full
reference_of_hermes_options.

- Config file

The first thing you need is a configuration file. There should be an example
file on /usr/local/share/doc/hermes or /usr/share/doc/hermes called
hermesrc.example. Copy this file to /etc/hermes/ (create the directory first if
needed)

  # mkdir /etc/hermes
  # cp /usr/share/doc/hermes/hermesrc.example /etc/hermes/hermesrc

Then edit the file, and let's start changing it:

  # vi /etc/hermes/hermesrc

- Editing the config

In this section we will be creating a new file from scratch with only the
minimum required to get hermes working.
First, let's specify the user and group to drop privileges to:

  user = nobody
  group = nobody

Now let's configure where the greylisting database is saved (defaults to /var/
hermes/greylisting.db).

  database_file = /var/hermes/greylisting.db

The only thing left is to specify the host and port with our real SMTP server:

  server_host = localhost
  server_port = 2525

After that, save the file and quit, and make sure that the database_file
directory exists and that it is owned by the user and group we specified
earlier

  # mkdir /var/hermes
  # chown nobody:nobody /var/hermes

If you have compiled hermes with SSL support, you have to configure the
certificate file and the private key

  private_key_file = /etc/hermes/hermes.key
  certificate_file = /etc/hermes/hermes.cert

Now we have to generate the key file and the certificate. To do this we will
use the openssl tool "openssl"

  # openssl genrsa 1024 > /etc/hermes/hermes.key
  Generating RSA private key, 1024 bit long modulus
  ...................................................++++++
  .......++++++
  e is 65537 (0x10001)
  # openssl req -new -x509 -nodes -sha1 -days 365 -key /etc/hermes/hermes.key > /etc/hermes/hermes.cert
  (at this point, openssl will ask lots of questions about your contact
  information, organization, and the like. Once it's over, the certificate will
  be generated)

Our resulting file looks like this:

  user = nobody
  group = nobody
  database_file = /var/hermes/greylisting.db
  server_host = localhost
  server_port = 2525
  private_key_file = /etc/hermes/hermes.key
  certificate_file = /etc/hermes/hermes.cert

Change your server's port
============================

Changing the port of your SMTP server is a very different proccess depending on
your SMTP software, although they basically involve editing a file to change
the port number from 25 (default) to another port number. This document will
show you how to change the port number from 25 to 2525, which is hermes'
default. If your server's software is not listed here, try to search for
"<software-name> change default port" (i.e. "sendmail change default port") in
your favourite search engine.

- Sendmail

To change sendmail port, edit your sendmail.mc file (usually on /etc/mail) and
edit the line that says:

  DAEMON_OPTIONS(`Port=smtp, Name=MTA')

and change the Port from smtp to 2525

  DAEMON_OPTIONS(`Port=2525, Name=MTA')

After that type make to rebuild sendmail.cf

  # make

And restart sendmail.
Of course, you can always edit the sendmail.cf directly, but if you know how/
what to change, then you don't need this help.

- Postfix

If you are using postfix, edit /etc/postfix/master.cf and change the line that
reads

  smtp inet n - n - - smtpd

to read

  2525 inet n - n - - smtpd

After that, restart postfix.

- Qmail

The easiest way to configure qmail's listening port is to edit /etc/services
and change the line that says

  smtp 25/tcp mail

to

  smtp 2525/tcp mail

and restart qmail.
